
## XAMPP server

XAMPP is a necessary software to run PHP on local machine. It helps integrating the local server, so that a PHP code can be seamlessly written (without need to deploy a website on the web). Everything could be run locally.

## Setting up XAMPP

Every time a computer is launched, we need to open a XAMPP software panel, from which we have to **check two boxes :**
* `Apache` - press "Start" button under *Actions* section
* `MySQL`- press "Start" button under *Actions* section

By checking above options, a XAMPP server is running, which can be accessed from by typing "localhost" in the browser searchbar (http://localhost). After accessing the site, there should be a view showcasing list of current PHP projects created by you. By clicking on a list entry, you can freely "travel to" and explore given PHP project.

## Creating project files

In case of PHP projects, there is a special directory, where a new PHP project can be created. Apache server is looking in a specific folder for your PHP projects. To access this directory:

1) Locate your `xampp` folder (obtained through XAMPP installation process). In most cases, it should be located in C:  Drive on your machine. 
2) Inside "xampp" directory, look for `htdocs` folder - then open it.
3) Inside "htdocs" you an create your new project, by simply adding a new folder. Each folder placed directly inside "htdocs" is treated as a new project.
4) Inside each project folder, you are free to create files that will be served by an Apache server and their content will be processed and finally displayed on the local server.