
First of all, PHP code is a code that can be run only in files with special `.php` extension. That means, a casual ".html" or ".js" files will not accept PHP code. However, files with `.php` extension do accept HTML code inside them. With PHP You are still free to create HTML as a string, so technically good-old HTML is not mandatory!

## Initializing PHP code

In order to use PHP in the `.php` file, we need to inform complier about the occurence of it. For that purpose, there is a special tag, inside which a PHP code can be written:

```
<?php
  // Between the tags you are free to write PHP code
?>
```

## PHP inside HTML code
 
As mentioned before, `.php` file accepts standard HTML code syntax. In case you want to directly append or integrate PHP output with HTML structure, you can embbed PHP tag like so:

```
 <body>
	<p> PHP is fun! </p>
	<!-- Some other tags  -->
	<?php  ?>
	<p> This is all inside HTML code </p>
</body>
```

While above code is absolutely correct, it makes no sense to include a sole PHP tag with no code included. Let's fix that by adding an `echo` command, that will display some extra text in the website:

```
 <body>
	<p> PHP is fun! </p>
	<!-- Some other tags  -->
	<?php echo "This is real PHP code!!!"; ?>
	<p> This is all inside HTML code </p>
</body>
```

You are free to include PHP tag inside the other regular HTML tag, like paragraph for example:

```
<body>
	<p> A normal paragraph </p>
	<p> This is a <?php echo "PHP-included"; ?> paragraph! </p> 
</body>
```

Also, there is nothing wrong in declaring PHP tag more than just once :

```
 <body>
	<p> PHP is fun! </p>
	<!-- Some other tags  -->
	<?php echo "This is real PHP code!!!"; ?>
	<?php echo "Declaring 2nd PHP tag is valid"; ?>
	<p> This is all inside HTML code </p>
	<?php echo "Why not adding third tag?"; ?>
</body>
```

Just remember that each PHP tag should have a specified ending, that is the `?>` part for each PHP declaration respectively. 
## PHP inside PHP-only file

Sometimes, you may encounter a scenario, where you want to create a `.php` file that contains only PHP code and nothing else. In such cases *it is recommended to omit the closing ?> tag*. This bahavior makes it easier to understand that a given file is not meant to store anything but just PHP - so no HTML, CSS or JavaScript this time.

Here is the example of PHP-only file and the proper tag declaration:

```
<?php
	echo "This is PHP-only file";
	echo "It does not contain HTML, CSS, JS";
	echo "It is just PHP";
	echo "In PHP-only files we should not use the ending tag";
```

If we decide later, that the file will actually contain, let's say, some HTML code aswell, then the closing PHP tag should be added :

```
<body>
	<?php
	  echo "This is no longer a PHP-only file";
	  echo "That is why the closing PHP tag is included";
	?>
</body>
```

## PHP comments

Comments are useful to leave a note that describes what a given code fragment does. Their purpose is pretty much the same as in JavaScript :

```
<?php>
	// This is a one-line comment
	/*
		This is a multi-line comment. It works inside multiple lines
		Seriously...
	*/
?>
```

## PHP core syntax rules

In order for PHP code to work without any errors, some basic syntax rules have to be strictly abided.

### Semicolon = end of line

Use semicolons *ALWAYS* at the end of each statement. PHP does not have ASI (Automatic Semicolon Insertion) system built-in, so one have to set them manually. 

To be precise, if the ending php tag `?>`  is present, it automatically adds a semicolon to the very last statement only. That means, the following code is syntactically correct :

```
<?php
	echo "I need a semicolon at the end of line";
	echo "I am the last command in this PHP code - no semicolon needed!"
?>
```

However, as a best practice, you still should *ALWAYS* opt for semicolons! 

### Double quotes = wrap the string text

Every piece of PHP code that is supposed to be text (string of characters), it should be wrapped inside double quotes `"  "` .  Avoid using single quotes  `'  '` or backticks  `  `` ` . Example:

```
<?php
	echo "The string text is wrapped in double quotes. Good !";
?>
```

## Trick no. 1

PHP is able to produce not only string text, but also an HTML template. This is done for example by using the `echo` command, and storing the HTML content as a string. See the code snippet below:

```
<body>
	<?php
		echo "<p> I am the paragraph </p>";
	?>
</body>
```

The modern code editors will naturally treat the `echo` command value as a string. Even though the text inside is HTML, the code editor will not recognise it - resulting in no syntax highlighting nor syntax checking. This can negatively impact development experience, especially in case of more complex HTML templates.

However there is a workaround for this issue. In order to benefit from syntax checking & highlighting, a *PHP code tag should be written in following format*:

```
<body>
	<?php if(true) { ?>
		<p> I am the paragraph, both syntax checked & highlighted by VSCode !
	<?php } ?>
</body>
```
