
What is common for most programming languages, is that they allow to represent data in different formats, based on what that data is. PHP is no exception here. It supports many different data types that are essential to understand.

## What is a variable? 

Variable under the hood is the memory location inside the project that stores some sort of data. You can think of it as a box *(memory location)*, that has it's own unique label *(memory address)* and inside that box some an item is stored *(data)*.  Whenever this box opened, the data within this box can be freely accessed. 

By referencing a variable, we can grab the data that is sotred in that variable, and based on such data, some further operations can be done.

## Defining & using a variable

To define a new variable in PHP, all you need to do is to add a preceding  "$"  sign just before the variable name (any of your choice) and use the "=" operator to assign newly created variable to a value:

```
<?php
	$name = "Joe Doe";
?>
```

Now with a variable already defined, we can now get access to the value underneath it, by using  "$"  followed by the variable name. In this example, the content of  `name` variable will be added to the webpage content by using `echo` command:

```
<body>
	$name = "Joe Doe";
	echo $name;
</body>
```

Variables can also be assigned to the other variables. In that situation, both variables store the same value:

```
$name = 'Kamil';
$myName = $name;

<?php echo $name ?> // Will output 'Kamil'
<?php echo $myName ?>  // Will alos output 'Kamil'
```
## Naming conventions

When naming variables, there are plenty of rules that you need to abide in order to avoid some lexical errors, and to follow the best practies:

* The variable name (apart from leading "$" sign) should start either with letter or underscore ( _ )
* After the first letter in variable name, other characters can be either letters, numbers, or underscoe ( _ )
* Follow _camelCase_ naming convention. First word in a variable name should be all written in lowercase, and every first letter of later words should be written in uppercase (eg. $myDogName)


## Base PHP data types

PHP includes many data types, that can be futher split into categories. Here are the most common ones:

### Scalar types

This type category means, that the variable contains just one value. This is the most common type category. Scalar type could be: **string**, **integers**, **floats**, **booleans** :

```
<?php
	// Scalar types
	$string = "Kamil"; // a word
	$int =  24441;  //  a number without decimal point
	$float = 1.43;  // a number with decimal points
	$boolean = true;  // either true or false
?>
```

### Array type

This type allows to contain multiple pieces of data inside the Array. As a good practice, each of the data included in a given array should be of the same type (like number Array / string Array).

Array can be defined in two ways:

```
// Old way of defining array - still working!
$namesArray = array('Ben', 'Joe', 'Adam');

// This way of defining array is only available in newer PHP versions
$namesArrayNew = ['Kate', 'Tom', 'Henry'];
```

### Unassigned type

PHP also allows to create a variable without attaching any value to it. If such variable is used, it **mimics the default type value depending on the context of where it is used** :

```
// Defining an unassigned variable (no value attached)
$empty;  

// "empty" will mimic the number type here, with default value 0
<?php 152 + $empty ?>

// "empty" will mimc the string type here, with default value ""
echo $empty;
```

Here is the list for default values for each specific data type:

```
<?php
	$string = "";
	$int = 0;
	$float = 0;
	boolean = false;

	$array = [];
	$object = {};
?>
```

**When it comes to declaring a variable, you should ALWAYS initialize it with a value (at least , default one for a desired type). Avoid using an unassigned type:**

```
// This is unassigned type - avoid using it
$unassigned;

// A better approach is to use default value for a desired variable type
$someName = "";
```

