
Beside creating the PHP variables on own, there are also a predefined, built-in variables provided by PHP itself. Such global variables can be accessed globally (anywhere inside the PHP code), regardless the use scope.

There is a specific amount of Global variables, and each of them is used for different purposes. 

## Accesing Global variable

Global variables (that are built into PHP) follow a very specific syntax, that is:

1. It starts with  `$`  character
2. Then an underscore character  `_`
3. The capitalized word describing the built-in variable name (for example: SERVER)
4. Next  a square brackets `[]` , inside of which we can retrieve a built-in property
  from that Global variable (for example: `["DOCUMENT_ROOT"]`)
5. The statement should be finished with a semicolon `;`

All in all, the example of Global variable access might look like the following:

```
<?php
	// Outputs the value of the global variable property "DOCUMENT_ROOT"
	echo $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"];
?>
```

The command above will show the root path of the website inside the computer (it should be looking like:  " C:/xampp/htdocs ").

## Global variables list

Below section describes available list of built-in Global variables accessible in PHP. Each of them will contain a short description of a particular Global variable as well as an example of available property and its' output.

### SERVER

Handles properties and information accessible by working with a server :

```
<?php
	/* Shows the root location of the website inside the computer */
	echo $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"];  // example output:   C:/xampp/htdocs
	
	/* Shows the root website folder and the path towards current PHP file */
	echo $_SERVER["PHP_SELF"];  // example output:    /calculator/index.php

	/* Shows the current server name that serves the PHP file */
	echo $_SERVER["SERVER_NAME"]; // example output:   localhost

	/* Shows the method used to accesss the website -> GET or POST */
	echo $_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"]; // example output:   GET
?>
```

### GET

Useful when it is necessary to transfer some data between the webpages inside the same website. The data in this Global variable becomes available after submitting the 
`<form action="someWebPage.php" method="GET"> </form>`, where action is the file that should be run after submitting the form, and the method is a request type to perform (for Global variable GET, the form method has to be "GET" also).

```
<php?
	/* Outputs the identifier "surname" passed as a value which user had written and then submitted in the form */ 
	echo $_GET["surname"]; // example output:   Smith
	echo $_GET["age"];  // example output:   28
?>
```

The GET parameters are often seen in a URL address bar (for example: http:localhost:3000/users?name=Smith&age=28). The above code will give the right output only if the parameter is included in the response URL. **It also means that GET method should be used for data that is not sensitive and should not be secret.** 

Use GET method for:

* Requesting and gathering data from the database;
* Working with parameters that could be exposed in a final URL in address bar;

### POST 

This one is also necessary to transfer data between the webpages inside the same website. The global variable becomes available after submitting the `<form action="someWebPage.php" method="POST"> </form>`. For Global variable POST, the form method has to be "POST".

```
<php?
	/* Outputs the identifier "password" passed as a value which user had written and then submitted in the form */ 
	echo $_GET["password"]; // example output:   myPassword123!
?>
```

The main difference is that the data passed used with "POST" method does not appear in the URL search bar, being invisible for the end user and anyone else. **This is very convenient  when working with data that is meant to be hidden or is very sensitive.**

Use POST method for:

* Working with sensitive data that should be kept secret and not be presented in the final URL in address bar (like password, credit card details, residence data, etc.)


### REQUEST

That Global variable has less specific usage, as it also looks for specific parameters, but it simultaneously checks for "GET" request parameters, "POST" request parameters, and "COOKIES" inside the webpage.

**This method should be used with caution, and only if we are not able to specify exaclty if the searching parameter might come from GET, POST or COOKIES.** For example, if user submits a form and then on the response page starts messing up with the URL address and manually changing / adding the parameters. **This can cause a lot of security issues when the data is not validated and sanitized properly**.

```
<?php
	/* Output the email parameter value occurences in GET, POST and COOKIES simultaneously */
	echo $_REQUEST["email"];  // example output:   myemail@gmail.com
?>
```

### FILES

Very useful when working with user uploaded content - not only files, but also images, videos, etc. This Global variable provides some data about the file, that has been uploaded to your server by user. HTML forms supports adding file by using a special input with a type of "file":  `<input type="file" />`.

It is important to double check for example the file extension that user is trying to submit (is it .jpeg format as intended ?) or even to check file size to detect if user is not trying to crash our website by uploading file very huge in file size. It is also used to check the submitted file name.

```
<?php
	/* Output the file name that user submitted by HTML input */
	echo $_FILE["name"];  // example output:   holidays.jpg
?>
```

### COOKIE

This Global variable allows to store and grab information about Cookies available on the Website. A cookie is a small file being embedded on the user's computer by the server. It may be useful for example for authentication purposes.

```
<?php
	/* Output cookie data with a name "myAuth" */
	echo $_COOKIE["myAuth"];
?>
```

### SESSION

Helpful to store user account credentials intact when changing webpages inside the website. For example, once user logs in and want to visit some other page in the same site, he does need to log in over and over again, since session "remembers" that particular user is now logged in. Session usually expires when the browser window is closed.

```
<?php
	/* Creating a session token labeled "username" with a value of "MTX" */
	$_SESSION["username"] = "MTX";

	/* Output the details of recently created session token */
	echo $_SESSION["username"];
?>
```

### ENV

Very important Global variable that helps dealing with Environment Variables. These are used to store very sensitive pieces of data, that should not be exposed anywhere and should remain secret.

```
<?php
	$_ENV["myApiKey"];
?>
```

### GLOBAL

This is a special Global variable, that basically gives an access to all variables defined inside the PHP code (added in compilation step), disregarding the scope of where such variables were defined.

```
<?php
	/* Output the value of variable "color" */
	echo $_GLOBAL["color"];
?>
```

