
Form handling is one of the most common areas, where PHP can be used effectively. Since PHP code runs server-side, it is an ideal choice for validating purposes, and much more! 

## HTML form example

Below is the correct example of HTML form that will be discussed in-depth inside this chapter :

```
<main>
    [1]-> <form action="handlers/myFormHandler.php" method="post">
    
       [2]-> <label for="firstname"> Firstname? </label>
        <input id="firstname" type="text" [3]-> name="firstname" placeholder="First..." />
        
        <label for="lastname"> Lastname? </label>
        <input id="lastname" type="text" name="lastname" placeholder="Last..." />

        <label for="favouritepet"> Favourite Pet? </label>
        <select id="favouritepet" name="favouritepet">
            <option value="none"> None </option>
            <option value="dog"> Dog </option>
            <option value="cat"> Cat </option>
            <option value="bird"> Bird </option>
        </select>
        
       [4]-> <button type="submit"> Submit </button>
    </form>
</main>

```

1. `<form>` tag should always contain two important properties. That is:
	* *action* => specifies the location of the script file that will be executed once the form is submitted. In the example, the script "myFormHandler" file is placed inside "handlers" folder. This is a file, which will receive the data filled by a user in the form. If you want to submit and send the data to the same file, please refer to [this chapter](#sending-form-data-to-the-same-file)
	* *method* => tells which HTTP method to use when submitting the form. The value can be either "get" or "post".


2.  When creating `<form>`, you should always use `<label>` along with a respective `<input />` or `<select>` tag. That approach allows people with disabilities to better read the form, which is a good accessibility improvement. To connect `<label>` tag with respective `<input />` or `<select>` tag, the attribute *name* of `<label>` should be exactly the same as atribute *id* of an input or select element. 

3. The value of the *name* attribute of tags like `<input />` or `<select>` will become a PHP reference name for that piece of data sent via submitting the `<form>`.  The corresponding value of such reference name will be:
	* For `<input type="text" />`  - the input value; the text that user wrote inside input tag;
	* For `<select>` - the *value* attribute of chosen `<option>` element(-s), that are placed inside the select tag;

4. `<button type="submit">` is an element that it used to submit forms. Once the button is clicked, the form is being sent, and the form data will be accessible inside the targe file script


## PHP form handler example

According to the example HTML form seen above, here is the valid version of how to properly validate a form submitted by a user (*note that the handler file in example above is located inside handlers folder, under name: myFormHandler.php*):

```
[1]-> <?php

   [2]-> var_dump($_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"]);

    [3]-> if($_SERVER["REQUEST_METHOD"] == "POST") {

     [4]-> $firstname = htmlspecialchars($_POST["firstname"]);
        $lastname = [5]-> htmlspecialchars($_POST["lastname"]);
        $favpet = htmlspecialchars($_POST["favouritepet"]);

        [6]-> if(empty($firstname)) {
            [7] -> header("Location: ../index.php");
            [8] -> exit();
        }

       [9] -> echo "These are the data, that user has submitted: ";
        echo "<br>";
        echo $firstname;
        echo "<br>";
        echo $lastname;
        echo "<br>";
        echo $favpet;

        header("Location: ../index.php");

    } [10] -> else {
        header("Location: ../index.php");
    }
```

1. Since the handler file will contain only PHP code (and no HTML), the `<?php` tag will NOT be closed with `?>` tag at the end of the file.

2. `var_dump()` is the built-in PHP function used to output detailed information about the particular variable passed inside this function. **This method is useful at the development stage, do NOT use it in production build.**

3. This `if` statement checks if the user reached the PHP script endpoint after actual form submitting. The `if` clause checks, if the request method is equal to "POST" - the same method used after form is submitted. **That check is very important, because user can manually type the PHP file endpoint (./handlers/myformHandler.php) in the address bar and run the PHP script without submitting the form**.
4. This and two following statements are used to gather form data submitted by a user, and then they results are stored in their respective variables. Those variables contain specific data, that is connected with the proper HTML element by its' `name` attribute. We acess the HTML element `name` attribute inside the `$_POST` superglobal (for example: `$_POST["firstname"]`) and therefore the underlying value is returned and directly assigned to a defined PHP variable.
5. `htmlspecialchars()` is a built-in PHP function that is very important when dealing with user submitted data. It escapes dangerous characters, so that if the user tried to submit a malicious code inside the HTML `<input />` tag, the PHP parser will not treat the submitted content as a script, but only as a HTML entity (thanks to this method). Using this method prevents from cross-site scripting attacks (XSS), and it possible outcomes, like: destroying the database, injecting JavaScript code into a website. **As a rule - never trust data submitted by user. Always sanitize data that user is able to submit !!!**
6. That `if` statement is used to handle cases, where user tries to submit an incomplete form,  without `firstname` property value. If that happens, user is redirected back to `../index.php`. To check if a given variable is empty (does not contain any data), an `empty()` function can be used - as a parameter we should add a variable to be checked.  **It is essential to keep that sort of checking statement inside the code. PHP is run server-side, so there is no option to bypass this checker by a user.  Client-side validation, on the other hand, does not give any security. For example, user can remove the "required" attribute from the "input" or "select" tags via Devtools Inspector, and then submit incomplete form. Therefore, server side validation is mandatory !!!**
7.  `header()` method is used to set a PHP header. In the example, a `Location` header is used, which redirects a user to the specified endpoint; that is towards `../index.php` in this case.
8. `exit()` function is used to exit the current run of the script. If the PHP interpreter will reach line with this code during runtime, further script execution is cancelled, so it is 100% sure than no code later than this statement will run. 
9. Those `echo` statements are used to output the user submitted data to. To enhance readability, some `echo` calls includes a `<br>` tag to insert a new line between the data pieces. In real-life situations, such data should rather be added directly to a database  or further used in some way.
10.  This `else` statement handles the alternate scenario described in point `[3]` (where user reached the PHP form handler without submitting the form). In the example above, a `header()` method is used, which redirects user to the form submission page (that is `../index.php`).


## Security basics

When it comes to using server-side languages PHP, a security aspect is more important than ever.
Abiding security best practises will minify the probability of your site being hacked, making your website a safer environment for the users.
### Sending form data to the same file 

There might be some cases, where sending the form data to a separate endpoint file is not a desired solution. The **action** attribute of `<form>` tag enables to specify a PHP tag with the expression to execute. Take look at below PHP code fragment:

```
<form method="post" action="<?php echo $SERVER["PHP_SELF"]; ?>">
	// Some inputs, labels and a submit button!
</form>
```

Even though it will work as expected, such expressions should be avoided, as **this may lead to potential XSS (Cross-site scripting) attacks**. At the very least, such code should be sanitized and validated properly to prevent malicious actors from abusing such form.

### Pure PHP files inside the private directories

Whenever there is a pure PHP file (one that does not contain any HTML), they **should be stored in the private directory - inside the server.**