
Control structures are used to navigate the code in different directions. It mostly involve executing some kind of code based on an external condition or variable. PHP offers several control structures that are similiar to other programming languages, and extends with one special structure - it will also be mentioned in this chapter.

## If - else conditions

This control structure is responsible for checking whether statement expressed inside round brackets are truthy. In case it is, the code inside the curly brackets is executed. According to example below: 

1. The `if` expression is evaluated first, but the  `$age` value is not less than 18, therefore evaluation is falsy. The code inside `if` statement is not executed.
2. There is also an `else if` statement present, and because evaluation of `if` condition was falsy, `else if` condition can be evaluated. This time evaluation is also falsy, as `$age` is not more than 18. **There could be more than just one `else if` statement chained, but in example below there is only one.**
3. There is no other `else if` statement present, however an `else` statement is defined, which serves as a "default case", when none of above statements were evaluated as truthy. Therefore `else` statement does not need a condition (it is implied in the instruction name). The code below will output following message:
	*"User is exactly 18 years old"*


```
<?php
	$age = 18;

	if($age < 18) {
		echo "User is less than 18 years old;
	} 
	else if($age > 18) {
		echo "User is older than 18 years old";
	}
	else {
		echo "User is exactly 18 years old";
	}
?>
```

## Switch 

Switch statement takes care of checking the exact value of the variable included inside the round brackets of the statement. Based on the value a given fragment of code is being executed. According to example below:

1.  `Switch` first gets the value of variable `$age` as its' condition. 
2.  Then it checks if the value of `$age` is equal to the first described `case` value, that is "Jeremy". After checking, it seems they are different. Code inside this `case` will not be executed.
3. Then it is verified if  variable value of `$age` is exactly "Daniel". In this example, that is correct! The code inside this `case` declaration is being executed. At the end there is a `break` statement added, which terminates further execution of the `switch statement`, so that is known that no other `case` or `default` will be run.
4. In this example, code inside `default` declaration will not be reached, because there is a `case` value that matches the variable `$age` value, and also such `case` includes the `break` declaration, which further prevents from running **every single code fragment inside sebsequent `case` and `default` statements.** All in all, the final output of this `switch` statement will be: "Username is Daniel".

```
<?php
	$name = "Daniel";

	switch($age) {
		case "Jeremy":
			echo "Username is Jeremy";
			echo "Jeremy is a good guy";
			break;
		case "Daniel": 
			echo "Username is Daniel";
			break;
		default:
			echo: "Username is unknown"; 

	}
?>
```

## Match

Starting from version 8 of PHP, there is a new control structure called `match`. It is used to set a variable to a given value, based on the value of the other, separate variable. According to the example below:

1. Variable `$result` is going to be set a value based on the current value of the other variable - `$test_grade`. 
2. First checker inside the `match` declaration is verified. The `$test_grade` value is not equal to 1, so that checker is being skipped.
3. Next one is the checker for three separate values: 2, 3 and 4. In this case `$test_grade` is the same as one of the checkers' values - that is 4. Therefore variable `$result` is set to "User has passed test, but with some mistakes made".
4. Because one of previous checkers contained value that matched  `$test_grade` value, the checker for value 5 will not be verified.
5. Because any of checkers contained value that matched `$test_grade` value, the text behind `default` clause will not be assigned to the `$result` variable.  

```
<?php

	$test_grade = 4;
	
	$result = match($test_grade) {
		1 => "User has not passed the test";
		2, 3, 4 => "User has passed test, but with some mistakes made";
		5 => "User has passed the test with a great result";
		default => "User has not yet received a grade"
	};

?>
```