

## What is TensorflowJS ?

TensorflowJS is a Javascript version of a popular Tensorflow library, originally written in Python. The library is used for **machine learning** purposes. TensorflowJS was developed by Google back in 2018 and nowadays it is a great tool when it comes to using AI directly inside the websites or web appications.

## Benefits

TensorflowJS usage comes with some main benefits that are worth mentioning :

* **Run anywhere JavaScript can**

	It simply means, that TensorflowJs can be run everywhere. That equates to zero-install on BILLIONS of devices globally. Just follow a link and it work instantly on device.

*  **Widely supported**
	
	TensorflowJs has been adopted by all major browsers (Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Safari), server-side (NodeJS), mobile native (React Native, PWA), desktop native (Electron), and on IoT devices (Raspberry Pi)

### Server-side benefits

Here are the benefits of utilizing Node.js for TensorflowJS that makes it a greatchoice :

1.  Possibility to use TensorFlow SavedModel without conversion
2.  Run larger models than client-side ( GPU memory limits )
3.  Code in one language - if you already use JavaScript
4.  Performance - C++ bindings & JIT boost for pre- and post-  processing.

### Client-side benefits 

Here are the benefits when using TensorflowJS on the web (client-side). Below benefits are close to or straight up impossible to achieve server-side :

1.  **Privacy** - as model runs entirely on the client machine, no data is ever sent to a third-party server, maintaining data privacy for the end user.

2. **Lower Latency** - as Javascript has direct access to the device sensors (such as the microphone, camera, accelerometer, etc.) there is no round-trip time to the server to analyze that data.

3. **Lower Cost** - if there is no data sent to the server, you will have less bandwidth and hardware server costs as there is no server-side GPU or server-side CPU, and RAM that are needed to be hired for inference. This means no need to run a dedicated ML server, which is cheaper than hosting website assets and model files.

4. **Interactivity** - web natively support use of image tags, video and audio tags, which might be beneficial for ML development, or in general to use such tag inside a web application.

5. **Reach & Scale** - anyone, anywhere can link and load a webpage, and the machine learning part contained will just work. No extra installation is required for that to happen.


## Disadvantages

As all technologies, usage TensforflowJS comes with some weaknesses, that needs to be understood :

* **User device limitations**

	While ability of running TensorflowJS everywhere is an advantage at the first glance, it also comes with a limitation. When a model is being run on the client side on device,  the hardware can change from user to user, which will affect the speed it can run and the execution time of a model.


## TensorflowJS APIs

TensorflowJS supports two main APIs that are available to be working with when developing AI models:

* **Layers API** - high level API (like Keras). This API is great for beginners and also very comfortable for developers with prior experience in Tensorflow (for Python). It hides out complexity for more readable and friendly format.

* **Ops API** - low level API (mathematical). It enables to go low-level, allowing to perform operations such as linear algebra to build pretty much anything you want. This API is more suitable for researchers, to create new features for cutting-edge machine learning research.


## How does it work

To better understand how the whole process works in the background, let's examine the following graph:

```
  <-- High Level                          Low Level -->

  [ MODELS ] >>  [ Layers API]  >>  [ Ops API (core) ]
```

At the top, there are **MODELS**. This segment refers to the pre-made models already available. Such models are built upon the **LAYERS API**, which itself sits on top of the **OPS API**. 

### Working environments

#### Client-side

This environment include mainly the browser provider (Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, etc.), but it also gives access to different  *backends*. In such context, *backend* refers to the hardware on which the code will be executed. Client-side environment enables following *backends* :  

* **CPU** ( Central Processing Unit )
* **WebGL** 
* **WASM** ( Web Assembly)

#### Server-side

There is also a server-side environment, which is provided by a Node.js version of TensorflowJS. Node version has a tighter integration with the operating system ( OS ) instead of the browser. This working environment enables following *backends* :

* **Tensorflow CPU**
* **Tensorflow GPU**

Note that the Node.js environment supports the same Tensorflow CPU and Tensorflow GPU bindings as Python has. In fact, both the Python and Node versions of TensorFlow are simply just wrappers around a C++ core, but server-side Tensorflow is written in behind the scenes. 

Above allows you to get the same performance from Python version of Tensorflow. However, since JavaScript on Node.js can leverage Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation features, that can lead to some essential performance gains over Python when running code on the server-side environment. 


### Available backends 

As mentioned before, the term *backend* here refers to the hardware execution context. Below are all currently available solutions :

1) **CPU** - It is always available, regardless of situation, but it is the slowest form of execution. In other terms, the execution speed is equal to one of vanilla JavaScript.

2)  **Web Assembly** - Has very fast *CPU* execution. It supports SIMD and Multithreading commands, which allow smaller models to run extremely fast on the *CPU*, sometimes even matching *GPU* ( Graphic Processing Unit ) performance - that is on the graphics card. Web Assembly is great for small models ( less than 10 MB in size ).

3) **WebGL** - It can leverage graphics card ( *GPU* ) execution, which currently is being supported by over 97.6% of all devices. That means that this backend can be run not only on GPU's like NVIDIA but also on AMD or Intel. It is great for bigger models ( more than 10 MB in size ).

4) **WebNN** - (new standard in web development). It is even faster than native execution. It will be supported in the future.

5) **Web GPU** - (new standard in web development). It is even faster than native execution on GPU. It will be supported in the future.