
Tensors are the primary data structure in Tensorflow programs. Machine learning models are literally take tensors as inputs, manipulate them in some way, and then returns the as outputs.

Tensors structure is very similiar to an array - they can have multiple dimensions. What is unique to tensors, is that the (almost) always contain numerical data (unlike Javascript arrays, which can hold also strings or objects).

The Tensor class itself has a lot of useful functions that can assist in transforming tensors into different sizes, dimensions or just to perform some math operations on the numbers contained within the tensor.

Below are some examples of valid tensors in Tensorflow.js :

```
const tensor_1 = tf.tensor([1, 2, 3, 4]);

const tensor_2 = tf.tensor([[1, 2], [3, 4]]);

const tensor_3 = tf.tensor([1, 2, 3, 4], [2, 2]);

```

<br>

## Tensor dimensionality

Tensors,  just as regular Javascript arrays, can contain multiple dimesnions. Below sub-chapters would cover different dimensionality of tensors that are possible to use within Tensorflow.js.

The term "Dimensionality" can be used to describe two features:

1) The "depth" of a tensor - in other words, how nested is the tensor. For example, the tensor: `tf.tensor([[[12, 1], [1233], [213, 1, 32, 4]], [2224]])` is considered 3-dimensional

2)  The quantity of data pieces included within the tensor. For example, such data: `[2, 233, 11, 9]`  is considered 4-dimensional

###  Rank 0 Tensor ( Scalar )

First, the simplest form of tensors is  **scalar**, also known as rank-0 tensor. In fact, it has no dimensions, since it is just a single value. It can be fairly compared to Javascript variable assignment, where a sole number is becoming a value of the variable.

Using Tensorflow.js API, to create a rank-0 tensor, we ca use a special function: `tf.scalar()`, and pass a single number inside the curly brackets, like so:

```
// Creating a rank-0 tensor

let myScalar = tf.scalar(12);
```

The code above will return the tensor holding number 12.


### Rank 1 Tensor ( Vector )

Next, there are 1-dimensional tensors. It can be compared to a list of numbers in an array. Such collection of numbers can be also called a **vector**. 

Using the Tensorflow.js API, you can use `tf.tensor1d()`, and inside curly brackets you should pass a 1-dimensional array of numbers, to return a rank-1 tensor holding those numbers.

The example is below:

```
// Creating a rank-1 tensor with 3-dimensional data

let myVector = tf.tensor1d([1, 2, 3]);
```

**NOTE: In the above example, the tensor itself is 1-dimensional, but the data stored is 3-dimensional, as it is three numbers in the array.** In other words, the vetor data is 3D, as it contains 3 numbers, but the tensor holding that data is 1D.  

Following code snippet above, the tensor data, which are numbers 1, 2 and 3, could for example represent a single coordinate in the 3D space - **x**, **y** and **z** respectively.


### Rank 2 Tensor ( Matrix )

Going further, there are 2-dimensional tensors, also named **matrix**.

Such tensor can be  used to represent a two-dimensional grayscale image. Each of these pixels requires coordinates (x, y) - so they can be easily recognized and distinguished on image of any size. Also, the pixel will contain a number  from 0 to 255, to represent the grayscale value of a pixel. For this type of task, 2-dimensional tensor with 3-dimensional data would be a perfect choice.

The actual shape of a rank-2 tensor is very similiar to 2-dimensional array in Javascript :

```
// Creating a rank-2 tensor

let tensor = tf.tensor2d([
   [5, 7, 137],
   [8, 12, 4],
   [0, 3, 224],
]);
```

Using Tensorflow.js API, you can call `tf.tensor2d()`, and as argument provide a two-dimensional array of numbers to return a tensor of rank 2, holding all numbers.


### Rank 3 Tensor ( tensor3D )

In similiar manner, there are rank-3 tensors possible to use.  A good use-case example can be utilizing the 3-dimensional tensor to represent a regular, full-color RGB image. A color image is made of red, green and blue channels. Each pixel, therefore, needs three numbers to produce the color that you see on the screen, with correct mixture of red, green and blue.

The example below shows a representation of 3x3 pixel RGB image stored in memory, where one layer could be the red values; second layer could be for green values; third layer for blue values.

Here is the example of rank-3 tensor, using `ts.tensor3d()` function, and passing a three-dimensional array as its argument :

```
// Creating a rank-3 tensor

let tensor = tf.tensor3d([
   [
       [1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9] // 1st (red) layer of 2-D values
   ],
   [
       [0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0] // 2nd (green) layer of 2-D values
   ],
   [
       [2, 4, 6], [8, 6, 4], [2, 4, 6] // 3rd (blue) layer of 2-D values
   ]
]);
```


### Rank 4 Tensor ( tensor4D )

Visualizing beyond third dimension is sort of tricky. A rank-4 tensor is simply an array of 3-dimensional arrays. A common use case for a 4-rank tensor would be video data - that is because video is just an ordered set of RGB images over time.

Example of rank-4 tensor :

```
// Creating a rank-4 tensor

let tensor = tf.tensor4d([
    [
      [
          [1, 2], [1222, 44]
      ],
      [
          [44, 11, 0], [22, 0, 44], [1, 5, 2]
      ],
      [
          [2], [8], [6]
      ],
    ],

    [
      [
          [5, 12], [4341, 53]
      ],
      [
          [10, 41, 3], [15, 128, 42], [1, 5, 1]
      ],
      [
          [9], [5], [4]
      ],
    ]
]);

```


### Rank 5 Tensor ( tensor5D )

Rank-5 tensors are also possible! Surprisingly, despite its complexity, there are still some real-world use cases for 5-D tensors. Starting off with a simple example, it can represent a collection of videos (as a video already requires using 4 dimensions).

Furthermore, 5-dimensional tensors can be very useful to store *voxels*, which are basically three-dimensional pixels. Voxels are used for example in Minecraft, and they are basically a 1x1 cube unit on the map. Each of the voxels has a specifc color value, representing different objects in the game.

In order to represent a voxel by a 5-rank tensor, first you need to store the RGB value it represents. The second, third and fourth dimension should be reserved for voxel coordinates (x, y, z), in order to properly classify the voxel placement on the map. The fifth dimension would be useful to store frames of the data held in previous four dimensions. You can think of it as an animation that records all the changes that happen to that specific voxel - with an option for playing animation frames back  over some time interval.

Because of the tensor complexity, in the example below, there will be shown just a template for 5-Tensor, without any data contained within :

```
// Template of a rank-5 tensor

let tensor = tf.tensor5d([
    [
       [
          [
             [ /* Some values here */ ]
          ]
       ]
    ]
]);
```


### Rank 6 Tensor ( tensor6D )

In extremely rare scenarios, a rank-6 tensor can be used. The tensor itself is so complex, it has little usage, but can be helpful in some cases. One of the situations might be representing a batch (collection) of voxel animations. To handle voxels, five dimensions is already required. The sixth dimension will be used then to sent animations to the ML model in parallel. 

Rank-6 tensor is the highest form of a tensor unit supported by Tensorflow.js. Realistically, you probably will never need to use it, but it is good to know that such tensors do also exist.

Because of the tensor complexity, in the example below, there will be shown just a template for 5-Tensor, without any data contained within :

```
// Template of a rank-6 tensor

let tensor = tf.tensor6d([
    [
       [
          [
             [
                [ /* Some values here */]
             ]
          ]
       ]
    ]
]);
```


<br>

## Related vocabulary

When working with tensors,  there are some common vocabulary that machine learning developers are often referring to. Most importantly, all tensors have two fundamental properties - **data type** and **shape**. But there is many more to be covered.

### Data Type ( DType )

Data type is the type of data that the tensor will store.  For example: *integers*, which are whole numbers; or *floats*, which are fractional numbers with a decimal point ( like 0.3 ). The amount of memory used to store these numbers defines the range of values that they can store. The reference for supported data type in Tensorflow.js can be found below :

1) *Int-8 (char)* 
	 *  Uses 8 bits of memory to store a number
	 *  Can store a value ranging from 0 to 255 (assuming it's unsigned)

2) *Int-16 (short)*
	*  Uses 16 bits of memory to store a number
	*  Can store a value ranging from 0 to 65 535 (assuming it's unsigned)

3) *Int-32 (long)*
	*  Uses 32-bits of memory to store a number
	*  Can store a value ranging from 0 to 4 294 967 295 (assuming it's unsigned)


In the machine-learning world, it is important to define a variable with correct type for its use case, as using the wrong type could eat a ton more memory - often larger networks are dealing with millions of numbers inside the model. 

For this reason you will see **typed arrays** being used a lot in Tensorflow.js that Javascript also supports, even though few people need to use them normally.  This not only helps with memory efficiency, but also for performance. If array only stores one type, then it can be accessed more efficiently too, making a program as fast as possible.


### Shape

Shape is a length (a number of elements) of each of the axis of the tensor. If we were to visualize a tensor to be a Rubiks' cube, then the shape of such 3-D tensor would be: | 3, 3, 3 |.


### Axis 

Axis represents a single dimension in the tensor. Following a Rubiks' cube example, there are 3 axis, and they represent the height, width and depth of the cube respectively. 

**Generally speaking, X-dimensional (also known as rank-X)  tensor will also contain X axis.**

### Size

Size is a total number of items inside the tensor. In 3x3x3 Rubiks' cube example, the tensor size would be 27 ( 3 * 3 * 3). By knowing the shape of the tensor, we can always calculate its size, as the operation comes down to multiplying all the dimensions (axis) lengths altogether.

<br>

## Basic tensor operations

Once you have got your data stored in a tensor form, you can now make use of all the powerful functions provided by the TensorFlow.js library. 

Below is the simple example of what can be done with in-build TensorFlow.js functions :

```
/**
  * Line below creates a 2D tensor.
  * Printing its values at this stage would return:
  * Rank: 2, shape: [2, 3], values: [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]
  **/

let tensor = tf.tensor2d([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]);

// Create a Tensor holding a single scalar value:
let scalar = tf.scalar(2);

// Multiply all values in tensor by the scalar value 2.
let newTensor = tensor.mul(scalar);

// Values of new Tensor would be: [[2, 4, 6], [8, 10, 12]]
// Show the newTensor value to the console
newTensor.print();

// You can even change the shape of the Tensor. This would convert 
// the 2D tensor to a 1D version with 6 elements instead of 2D (2 x 3 by shape)
let reshaped = tensor.reshape([6])

```

Technically speaking, `mul()` function could technically be replaced by the JavaScript `reduce()` function to achieve the same results. However, using TensorFlow.js `mul()` function comes with a benefit of much faster execution as vanilla Javascript. 

That is because with Tensorflow.js we can  advantage of the faster  execution on the graphics card (or other back-ends supported by TF.js) , which can do many of these operations in parallel or much faster than vanilla Javascript. 

This will ensure your program will run very fast when doing such operations, even on huge array of numbers. Especially when dealing with image data, that may require millions of numbers, that performance boost can make a huge difference in execution time.



<br>


## Memory management

In regular Javascript,  when you declare a variable:  `let x = 1;`  and then you stop using this variable, the browser will automatically clean up the memory it used with its **garbage collector**, freeing up the RAM and resources for the computer. Unfortunately, that is not a case in Tensorflow.js programs. 

Here are some very important points in terms of memory management:

* You must dispose of Tensors created manually !

* You can call a special function,  `tf.dispose()` and pass a tensor as an argument to remove a given tensor from memory.

* Alternatively, there can be used a `tf.tidy()` and pass a function as an argument.  All tensors created inside passed function will be disposed once theat function will finish executing. NOTE:  Passed function **has to be synchronous** !

*  Getting rid of unused tensors is very crucial, as otherwise you can cause a memory leak if you keep creating too many tensors (let's say inside a loop) and never dispose any of the old ones.
