
The second form of premade model is simply just the raw trained model itself, with no Javascript class wrapped around it, that typically hides the inner workings to make it easier to use for beginners. For this, you will need to write the code to sent data into the model, and then extract the data from it yourself, using tensors. Now individuals and researchers may share their raw models like this, which can be very useful for finding and using examples, that can still be in development, or use models that solve less common problems, that do exist, but are not documented well enough.

## Model formats

There are two types of models supported by Tensorflow.js. The first one is the layers model, which is easier to inspect and understand at runtime, but might run slower, as they have not been optimized.  This is becuase they keep their high-level building blocks for ease of use and debugging, which can help in creating new models.

Next, graph models are highly optimized and often combine multiple operations into one batch for very fast execution. These models are not easy to understand as a human if you try to unwrap them. The only difference between how you use them however, is the function to call to load them.


## TFJS raw model files

Both graph and layer model formats are stored in the same way, consisting of at least two model files. 

The first file, is named model.json. It contains a bunch of metadata about the model type, its architecture and configuration details. The second file, is one or more binary files, ending in the .bin extension. Typically, these will have the name of "shard x of n .bin". These binary files  contain all of the trained parameters that the model has learned in order to perform a certain task. As Tensorflow.js is designed to work in the browser environment, the original, complete binary file is broken up into the sharded files of 4 MB in size (or less). This sharding into smaller files allows a browser to download multiple chunks simultaneously to speed up the page load time. All of these files are simply hosted on a server or CDN of your choice when you need to use them. By default, all of these files will be assumed to be stored in the same directory. If you want to store the binary shard files in the different location that model.json file, in such case you need to edit model.json file to specify a path to the shard files.

## Loading a raw model

By referring to the Tensorflow.js API, there are two functions to load graph models and layers models. These are `tf.loadGraphModel()` and `tf.loadLayersModel()` respectively.  Both functions require a model URL as the first parameter (which is the location of the model.json file). Below is a code example of loading a raw TFJS model :

```
const modelUrl = `https://storage.googleapis.com/tfjs-models/savedmodel/mobilenet_v2_1.0_224/model.json`;

const model = await tf.loadGraphModel(modelUrl);
```

Below code represent a way to load a model and output it values to the console (by using `summary()` function) :

```
const MODEL_PATH = `https://storage.googleapis.com/jmstore/TensorFlowJS/EdX/SavedModels/sqftToPropertyPrice/model.json`;

let model = undefined;

async function loadAndOutputModel() {
  model = await tf.loadLayersModel(MODEL_PATH);
  model.summary();
}

loadAndOutputModel();
```


## Model.summary()

Above mentioned `summary()` function prints some useful information about the model to the console. For example, model loaded above will look similiar to this :

```
Layer (type)                    Output shape             Param #
==================================================================
dense_input (InputLayer)          [null,1]                 0
-----------------------------------------------------------------
dense (Dense)                     [null,1]                 2
==================================================================
Total params: 2
Trainable params: 2
Non-trainable params: 0
```

->  As the model loaded from the code snippet above was a layers model, the summary shows the types of layers the model uses behind the scenes. The layers can help you understand other people models and what they are doing.

->  The `summary()` call also provides details about the tensor shapes it will output from each layer. Take note of the last layers' - `dense (Dense)` - output shape : `[null,1]`, as this is the shape of a tensor that will be returned back after running data through the model.

->  There is also mentioned a number of total parameters contained in the model, which gives an idea of how many tensors the model uses internally itself.

->  A notable part is the `dense_input (InputLayer)` output shape, which is `[null,1]`. The Input Layer is a special layer representing the inputs and does not contain any trainable parameters (which can be viewed under `Param #` that specifies number of parameters present in a given layer). Depending how the model was made, this output shape inside Input Layer may not always be shown after using `summary()`. In such cases, in order to check the output shape of Input Layer, you should check the model documentation for details on the expected input layer shape if it is not shown.

1) In `[null,1]`, the number "1" in the output shape of the Input Layer shows, that it expects a single number as an input. If it had been number "2" instead, then two numbers would be expected as input, becuase the shape represents the length of each axis of a tensor.
   
2) In `[null,1]`, the `null` value on the left side of output shape allows a **batch of any size** to be passed as an input. Following the example model, it needs to be passed a tensor 2D object, as two axis are specified as the input shape. In this case, the shape of a tensor that has seven examples to classify as a batch would be `[7, 1]` (which is a valid shape input for this model) as the `null` value indicates any number is allowed. If you had just one value, you could pass a tensor 2D object with the shape of  `[1, 1]` and that would also be valid.

## Batching

In ML world, it is common to perform many predictions in one go for efficiency, which is known as a "parsing the inputs as a batch"

As an example - if you have got seven input values that you want classified, instead of calling `model.predict()` seven times,  you can pass a batch of seven inputs at the same time - and they will be evaluated concurrently, whenever possible.  TFJS expects inputs in models to be batched even if that batch contains just one input (after all, a batch of one is still a batch).

In order to perform batch, you need to store those values in a tensor, whose rank is one level higher than the data itself (in other terms, it is like wrapping the entire data inside an array). So, data that could have been stored in a tensor 1D, would need to be stored in a tensor 2D to be used as a batch. 

## Invalid Shapes as Inputs

Following the example of passing a tensor for `dense_input (InputLayer)` - if we try to pass a tensor with an incompatible shape (like passing tensor of `[1, 2]` instead of correct shape: `[null, 1]`), in the console there will be present an error similiar to this one :

```
Uncaught (in promise) Error:  Error when checking : expected dense_input to have shape [null,1] but got array with shape [1,2].
```

This is actually a very common error, and is usually due to misunderstanding of what the model needs as an input.  Always check `model.summary()` if you are unsure.


## Inference

Inference is the process of passing the data into the model and predicting the output.  The whole inference process can be viewed in code example below:

```
async function loadModel() {
   model = await tf.loadLayersModel(MODEL_PATH);
   model.summary();

   // Create a batch of 1.
   const input = tf.tensor2d([[870]]);

   // Create a batch of 3
   const inputBatch = tf.tensor2d([[500], [1100], [970]]);

   // Actually make the predictions for each batch
   const result = model.predict(input);
   const resultBatch = model.predict(inputBatch);

   // Print results to console
   result.print();  // or use .array() to get results back as array
   resultBatch.print();  // or use .array() to get results back as array

   // Dispose all tensors
   input.dispose();
   inputBatch.dispose();
   result.dispose();
   resultBatch.dispose();
   model.dispose();

}

```

It might be surprising, but in above example there was actually 6 tensors created when running this code. 

*  2 tensors were created when model was loaded itself. If we check the `model.summary()` output, we can see that the total parameters is 2 , indicating that 2 tensors were made internally. In other words, the act of loading that model, will cause to create 2 tensors at runtime.

*  2 tensors were created for the inputs (`input` and `inputBatch`)

*  2 tensors were created, but returned back as outputs.

**Make sure to dispose the tensors once you no longer need them - otherwise, you may cause a memory leak in the application (when the memory usage grows to infinity and will eventually crash the computer by calling functions that create undisposed tensors).**


## Checking the results

By successfullly running the Inference process, just like following the inference code example above, you should see the output tensors printed to the console - something like that :

```
Tensor
   [[866888.5625]]
--------------------------
Tensor
   [[498212.1875],
    [1096065.875],
    [966530.875]]

```

The first prediction result is a single tensor input value.

The second prediction is batch of results, that will ALWAYS be in the same order as the inputs presented, which then can be safely iterated through as needed.


## Offline models


A good part about TFJS models is that they can be accessed even offline. It is a very simple process to save any model and then load for offline access using the web browser's local storage functionality. TFJS provides a convenient function:  `model.save()`.

As a function argument, just pass a local storage address to then retrieve it at some later point. Next time the page loads, instead of loading the model from a web server, you can load a model from local storage instead. This may allow you to use TFJS models in more advanced implementations, like **Progressive Web Apps (PWA)** that can work offline.

```
// Save a model to local storage for offline access!

await model.save('localstorage://demo/newModelName'); 
```



Now to check if a model is saved local storage next time the page loads, instead of loading the model from a web server, you can check `tf.io.listModels()` as shown below. This will return a list of models that are currently stored locally that are usable. 

```
// Check for saved models in local storage

console.log(JSON.stringify(await tf.io.listModels()));
```


Finally, you can load the model inside the script file just like before, **but instead of using the model URL address, this time a localstorage URL should be passed** :

```
// Load the model in script file just like before, but using the localstorage URL

await tf.loadLayersModel('localstorage://demo/newModelName');  // for Layers models
await tf.loadGraphModel('localstorage://demo/newModelName');  // for Graph models
```
