
Kaggle Models is a website where people upload their raw, saved models. It is a kind of "digital garden", where developers can deploy their  raw models for others to use. One example from TensorFlow ecosystem is Kaggle Models, from which you can download models as you need. 

**It should be noted, that documentation for such hosted models might be minimal and the models quality can be of varying quality or production readiness. Also the developer might not spend enough time writing easy-to-use interface to the model itself.**

Kaggle Models website is available here: https://www.kaggle.com/models

## Searching for a Kaggle Model

In order to choose the right model the first thing that needs to be done is to **filter the model format** to only show models that are compatible with TFJS using the "All Filters -> Framework" menu.

Secondly, inside "All Filters" menu, there is a "Task" section, where are listed the common problems (like "Text Generation" or "Image Classification").

Finally, click "Apply" to include selected filters and perform searching for all the models that meets requested criteria. The results will be in a form of a list with clickable items. 

After clickng on mentioned list item, a model card can be viewed, which reveals more information about the model and its' documentation. You then need to change the tab inside "Model Variations" from "TensorFlow 2" to "TensorFlow.js", as by default a Python TF model variation is shown.


## Viewing model documentation

There are 3 key factors that should be looked for in order to use the model. These are the following:

1) **What inputs does the model expect ?**

    Example:  "A frame of video or image, represented as an int32 tensor of shape:  192x192x3. Channels order: RGB with values in `[0, 255]` "

2) **What outputs does it produce ?**

	Example:  "A float32 tensor of shape `[1, 1, 17, 3]` The first two channels of the last dimension represents the yx coordinates (normalized to image frame, i.e. range in `[0.0, 1.0]`) of the 17 keypoints. The third channel of the last dimension represents the prediction confidence scores of each keypoint, also in range `[0.0, 1.0]`"

3) **Is there any example usage code to be used to get started quickly ?**

	 Oftentimes, documentations contain a "Usage" or "Get Started" sections, that could contain a prior setup or a simple example on how to load the model, as shown below:

```
tf.loadGraphModel("https://tfhub.dev/google/movenet/singlepose/lightning/tfjs/4", { fromTFHub: true });
```

Above example shows one essential difference, however. Inside `loadGraphModel()` function there is a second parameter - an object with property of `fromTFHub: true`.  That is a special use case just for when you are loading directly from the Kaggle Models hosting. **In cases, where you have downloaded the model files and hosted them on your own, you do not to use this second parameter**.

### A practical tip

Sometimes the documentation might become stale or out-of-date after model creators have pushed an update to the model on Kaggle Models. For this reason, when specifying a model URL to load from Kaggle Models,  always use the "current live version" - it guarantees the model stability as that is the newest, production-ready model version.


## Normalization

To understand what normalization is - let's say there are a bunch of numbers stored in an array that can take the range from -100 to 100. In a second array, there are stored numbers that ranges from 0 to 1000. 

If we were to compare a value (for example: 50) from the first array with a value from the second array, it would be kind of tricky, as a given number in each case would be at very different ends of the scale for what it represents. Value 50 in the first array would be a pretty high number, while the same value in the second array would be a very low value.

In such situations, it is more convenient to convert the numbers to be in a form that is easier to compare, so they are always in the same range of values. The process of "normalizing" the range to just one, general range, is known as **normalization**.

It is quite common in machine learning to normalize numbers between 0 and 1. In order to do so, based on the example above:

1) Find the difference between the number that can occur and the minimum number that can occur for each set of numbers:
   
```
RANGE = MAX_VALUE - MIN_VALUE;

#1 Array (-100 to 100) -> RANGE = 100 - (-100) = 200  🆗

#2 Array (0 to 1000) -> RANGE = 1000 - 0 = 1000  🆗
```

2)  For each value in each set of numbers, you need to substract the minimum value that exist in that particular set:

```
SUBSTRACT = NUMBER_FROM_ARRAY - MIN_VALUE;

#1 Array (-100 to 100) -> SUBSTRACT = 50 - (-100) = 150  🆗

#2 Array (0 to 1000) -> SUBSTRACT = 50 - 0 = 50  🆗
```

3) The final step is to divded a SUBSTRACT number (from step 2.) by the RANGE value (from step 1.) :

```
NORMALIZED = SUBSTRACT / RANGE;

#1 Array (-100 to 100) -> NORMALIZED = 150 / 200 = 0.75 ✅

#2 Array (0 to 1000) -> NORMALIZED = 50 / 1000 = 0.05 ✅
```


Now, where we compare Normalized values (0.75 and 0.05), it is a lot clearer that 0.05 is a much lower value overall.


## Pre-processing

Pre-processing is the process of writing the code that can transform the data into a form that could be input to the model.


## Post-processing

Post-processing is the process of writing the logic to take the output numbers from the model and then to do something useful with them.
