
Here are the basic concepts that make the foundation of AI development and will describe their intended purpose.


## ML Models

Below graph represents how the Machine Learning models work:

```
INPUT:                                   OUTPUT:
               ____________________       
192  ---->                     
157  ---->       MACHINE LEARNING     ----> 0.24  [ DAISY ]
23   ---->            MODEL           ----> 0.76  [ ROSE ]
111  ---->     ____________________

```

 **Above graph shows a simplified concept.** Basically ML model is populated with some Input data, that in return produces the Output data.  Both Input and Output parameters are ALWAYS numerical data ( natural numbers or floating point numbers ).

According to the graph example, this could be an example system that detects the flower present on the Input image. The output shown suggests that the flower contained is Rose (with 76% confidence), and it is unlikely to be Daisy (with just 24% confidence). Therefore,
**higher Output number represents better classification**.

Further, this Output values can be used further within an application to make some app-logic decisions based on the confidence value.


## Learning patterns

Machine Learning models in their initial state are  not very useful. After all, such model is untrained, meaning that the predictions  the model would give are very random and unreliable. Without any prior learning, Machine Learning prediction is literally like a flipping a coin.

However, there are 3 learning patterns for models to effectively teach them desired concept or provide them feasible knowledge to solve a certain task:

### Supervised learning

`Train by labelled data`

ASD
### Unsupervised learning

### Reinforcement learning