

Machine Learning models in their initial state are  not very useful. After all, such model is untrained, meaning that the predictions  the model would give are very random and unreliable. Without any prior learning, Machine Learning prediction is literally like a flipping a coin.

However, there are 3 learning patterns for models to effectively teach them desired concept or provide them feasible knowledge to solve a certain task:


## Supervised learning

=>  `Train by labelled data`

The most common learning pattern. The data used to train machine system is pre-labelled. Each data point has a corresponding label associated with it, that you know to be correct. This label distinguishes some of the datapoints from] the others, creating some "data groups". For example, watermelons are green, while oranges are of orange color. 

*This type of learning is similiar to how babies are taught real-world items. Baby needs a few example of watermelon to understand what makes watermelon... a watermelon. In other words - what makes a specific item unique compared to others.*


## Unsupervised learning

=>   `Finding patterns in unlabelled data`

In this type of learning, the labels pre-assigned to the specifc data point are unknown. The only thing known is how many classes are expected to be found in this dataset (the exact number of classes to be found is provided by developer).

According to example with watermelons and oranges - human can easily classify differences between the two, like color or weight. The computer does not understand the differences, so that it has to learn them. Furthermore, names "watermelon" and "orange" are also unknown for computer, so that a generic classification names would be used by computer (something like "class-0" and class-1). The developer task is then to make a correlation between the data groups.

*This type of learning is very useful when there is no defined label to distinguish data points from. The computer is left with a task to create "x" amount of clusters, and to categorize each data point separately to one of the cluster. Computer will infer some key differences on its' own.*


## Reinforcement learning

=>   `Set a reward function, and let ML program figure best way to solve`

This form of machine learning tries to take actions to achieve a goal in such a way to maximaze a reward that is defined by a developer. There is a set reward pattern and a punishment pattern that makes algorithm trying to be getting rewards and simultaneously avoiding punishments.

*For instance, in the game of PACMAN, a reward will be collecting the dots placed on the map, and the punishment is the situation, when Pacman touches any of the ghosts.*
