
Let's imagine a situation, that a developer is building a web-based system for farmers who are trying to classify watermelons and oranges to speed up the delivery of picked fruits that are currently mixed together and need to be send to the right destinations.

To make the such system possible to exist, the following steps needs to be done.

## Define Features (Attributes)

The first thing needed to be done is to identify some special attributes of the fruits that could be measured. In terms of watermelon and orange, the features could be **weight** and **color**. Both features are easy to measure and are possible to represent numerically. 

*Features are used to train an ML system. They are the properties of the things you are trying to learn about.*

Two features would mean that there are 2 dimensions. A  2-D system may be plotted on a graph if numerical. An ML system can learn to split the data up to separate apples from oranges on such a plot. This can now be used to make future classifications. 


## Avoid Bad Features (Attributes)

Choosing useful input features can have big impact on the quality of the ML system. Some features may not be useful enough to separate the data points.

According to the example, while **color** and **weight** are good features, some others like **ripeness** or **number of seeds** might not.


## More feautres !

The fruits example uses 2 dimensions, but there is nothing wrong in adding more, like third feature, resulting in 3 dimensions. This of course can go beyond just 3 features. While it is hard to visualize more than 3 dimensions, computer can easily work in more complex environments. For that purpose, computer is using **hyperplane** to separate data instead.

**Note that most ML problems have higher dimensionality! For image recognition, thousands of features are used, because each separate pixel is a feature.**


## Classification vs Regression

When working with supervised learning, there are typically two types of problems you might be trying to predict :

### Classification

=>  `What thing is represented by the inputs provided?`

Here we are trying to predict a specific class from a number of  possible known, predefined classes. For example, from defined features, is the object a cat, a dog or an elephant ?

### Regression

=>  `What will be the output number based on the input value?`

In terms of regression problem, we are trying to predict some number based on some other input numbers. For example we may try to examine what is the price of the house if it is 1000 square feet in size?


## Data Bias

**Beware of data bias!** It turns out that in a real world there are edge cases that can overlap. One of the biggest challenges to face is to collect enough data that is trully representatives of all the different situations you might encounter in the real world. If you do not do this, there is a good chance that machine learning system will fail in such edge cases.

Imagine you want to recognize cats. You might 10.000 of different breeds cats, at different stages of their life (kitten vs adult), different fur patterns, different colors; all of which at different angles and lighting conditions, etc. That all needs to be fulfilled in order to be able to train a system that understands the essence of what cat pixels really are.