
There are three key ways you can use or create Machine Learning models.

## Pre-made models

=>   `Reuse state of the art models that already exist`

The easiest and quickest way to get started. These are Machine Learning models that someone else has already trained. Such models can be reused for the same use case. 

It is very common that for a specific problem there is already an existing Machine Learning model that solves a specific problem. Most of pre-made models are stable, being trained on huge amounts of data, and are typically very robust for the given task. They are usually well-tested in real-world situations, meaning they are very reliable too. 

Some pre-made models have associated model cards, which can be checked to examine how it performs for the data it is used to train on, and if there are any known issues to be aware of when using such model.


## Transfer learning 

=>   `Retrain existing models on your data`

This type of ML usage is about taking certain pre-trained models, and retrain them to learn a new, similiar task using your own data instead.

*If you have a model that is great ar image recognition - maybe it can already recognize dogs, tables and chairs - you can easily retrain that model to recognize fe. cats, as it already has building blocks to find a variety of objects in an image. This can be then used to find other objects too.*

Basically the developer provides some new data for the ML model, from which it builds upon its previous understanding of the world, in order to solve the task in a very fast way.


## Custom models

=>  `Writing your own models from a blank canvas`

Finally, you can choose to create your own models starting with from scratch using the TensorflowJS API. This is useful when there is no existing model type that is suitable for a given task at hand, or there are existing models, but they are not fast enough or they take up too much memory. 

In such situation, you can try to write and then train your own model architectures that can solve these problems. More often than not, few people would need to work at this level. Previously mentioned usage patterns (pre-made models & transfer learning) are enabling to work faster with Machine Learning and they are leveraging cutting-edge research thar proves a given ML model to work well with for a given task.
