
The process of choosing the right model for a given task is an essential step to find the most optimal, well-performing solution. Selecting the right model comes down to three steps.


## 1: What is the problem to solve?

First and foremost, we need to address what is the issue, for which we want to create an application. It needs to be specified exactly, what is the goal we are trying to achieve, as well as some optional characteristics.

The example problem statement could be the following:

*I would like to create a web app that can detect and alert me when an intruder is in my garden but does not send any of my images to the cloud.*

## 2. Which ML model can be used?

For the example statement expressed above, the next step is to consider some models that naturally can be used to solve a given task. 

First off, we can check if there is a pre-defined, custom TFJS model that can assist in solving the problem. Luckily, for the above task, there are plenty of potentially good options, such as:

* ✅  **Image Classification**  -  checks whether the given object (eg. human) exists
* ✅   **Object Detection**  - tries to detect the occurence of an object (eg. human)
* ✅   **Body Segmentation** -  checks for human body parts in the view or image
* ✅   **Pose Estimation** -  it generates the pose skeleton if the human is detected
* ✅   **Face Landmarks** - looks for human face in the given view or image
* ✅   **Hand Pose**  - generates hands skeleton when human hands are present

## 3. Identify the best ML model

By preselecting few of the best ML models to solve a certain task, it is high time to pick the best one out of them! This step is about checking the measurable characteristics of candidate ML models and to make a comparison between them.

Here are some of the parameters that should be taken into account:

🕰️ *Inference speed (ms)*  - specifies the time it takes from sending new data as input to the model, to getting an output prediction. Lower times (typically measured in milliseconds) mean faster performance, that can sometimes be measured in *frames per second (FPS)*

🗒️ *File size (MB)* - specifies the amount of memory the ML model uses, in terms of raw file size, typically measured in megabytes. Less file size is better to make a webpage load faster.

📼  *Runtime RAM usage (MB)* - specifies the amount of RAM the ML model needs to run on the machine; typically measured in megabytes.

<br>

According to above example, after some metrics measurement, this is how candidate models from step 2. performs:

1) **Image Classification** :
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   29 ms / 14 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   17
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):   42

2) **Object Detection** :
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   26 ms / 20 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   18.6
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):   26

3) **Body segmentation** :
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   500 ms / 2 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   1.1
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):  62

4) **Pose Estimation** : 
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   19 ms / 51 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   5
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):  56.6

5) **Face Landmarks** : 
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   28 ms / 35 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   6.2
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):  70.7

6) **Hand Pose** :
	* 🕰️ Inference Speed (ms / FPS):   67 ms / 15 FPS
	* 🗒️ File Size (MB):   7.9
	* 📼 Runtime RAM usage (MB):  125


Here are some extra useful insights to be aware of when deciding which model to use:

* For web-applications working real-time, you should aim for at least **10 Frames Per Second**

* Typically, a smaller file size may be preferable for a web page that is reloaded all the time, especially if it is loaded over a 3G connection on a mobile device. In cases when the page is loaded just once and the app is up and running, this becomes less of an issue.

* With new generation smartphones, RAM usage should not be a concern. It can be, however, when user browses the app with very old device (such devices can have even as little as 1GB of available RAM). This number can be also lower, if user decides to run other applications simultaneously.


Sometimes it is not all about numerical (measurable) parameters. In some cases, an ML model may outperform its rivals, but the use-case of the model might not fit the problem very well. In such cases, there is nothing wrong in choosing the ML model the performs worse, but can perfectly adapt to the task to be solved.


### How to look for the model parameters ?

Some of available ML models will have their **documentation page**, that could potentially contain some crucial pieces of information, such as the model size or the model performance. However, it all depends on how detailed the documentation is. Some may contain not even a single metric as a reference. In such cases, the missing data can be **Benchmarked**.

In order to **Benchmark** a ML model, you first need to create a straightforward, simple website that utilises the reasearched model on the device of interest (eg. mobile). 
Below are the methods on how to **benchmark** metrics separately:

#### Benchmark: Inference Speed

For Inference Speed (FPS benchmarking), a timestamp recording would be enough. The way it works is by first setting the timestamp right before the model loads, followed by the second timestamp once the model has been loaded. By substracting the first timestamp from the second, a load time can be returned.

Here is the piece of code that handles Inferenece Speed benchmarking :

```
async function calculateInferenceSpeed() {
	const timeStart = performance.now();
	let results = await useSomeModel();
	const timeEnd = performance.now();
	const timeTaken = timeEnd - timeStart;
	
	console.log(`Time taken ${timeTaken} ms.`);
	console.log(`Frames per sec: ${1000 / timeTaken}`);
}
```

#### Benchmark: Model File Size

File Size checking is actually pretty simple. Any modern Browser Development Toolkit (eg.  Chrome Developer Tools) will support checking file sizes.

* First, open such Toolkit with `CTRL + SHIFT + I`
* Go to the "Network" Tab and **ensure "Disable cache" is selected**
* Now refresh the webpage (`CTRL + R`)

As the page is loaded back again, inside the Network Tab there should be visible all the webpage assets. The view will show many loaded files with their respective file size, but most importantly:  `model.json`, and numerous `.bin` files.

To calculate the Model File Size, we simply need to add sizes for all the `.bin` files sizes together with `model.json` file and that would result in total ML model size.

#### Benchmark: Model RAM usage

For ML model RAM usage, you can again take advantage of Browser Development Toolkit:

* First, open such Toolkit with `CTRL + SHIFT + I`
* Now visit the "Memory" Tab
* Click a "Take snapshot" button
* When the Snapshot finishes loading, now click on the Snapshot instance and then **change the "Summary" view to "Statistics" view**

If thing were done correctly, there should be some sort of a graph showcasing RAM usage for the tested ML model.


